---
layout: post
title:  "Planetary mass-radius relations across the galaxy"
excerpt: "We show that there is a persistent statistical difference in the expected mass-radius relations of solid planets between the different galactic stellar populations."
date:   2020-05-06
categories: Papers
author:
  name: Michel A., Haldemann J., Mordasini C., Alibert Y.
  links:
  - title: Arxiv.org
    url: https://arxiv.org/
    icon: far fa-file-pdf
tags:
  - 'Co-Author'
share: false

---
Planet formation theory suggests that planet bulk compositions likely reflect the chemical abundance ratios of their host star’s photosphere. Variations in the abundance of particular chemical species in stellar photospheres between different galactic stellar populations demonstrate that expected solid planet bulk compositions differ.
We aim to present planetary mass-radius relations of solid planets for kinematically differentiated stellar populations, namely the thin disc, thick disc, and halo.
Using two separate internal structure models, we generate synthetic planets using bulk composition inputs derived from stellar abundances. We explore two scenarios, iron-silicate planets at 0.1 AU, and silicate-iron-water planets at 4 AU.
We show that there is a persistent statistical difference in the expected mass-radius relations of solid planets between the different galactic stellar populations. At 0.1 AU for silicate-iron planets, there is a 1.51 to 2.04% mean planetary radius difference between the thick and thin disc stellar populations, whilst for silicate-iron-water planets past the ice line at 4 AU, we calculate a 2.93 to 3.26% difference depending on the models. Between the halo and thick disc, we retrieve at 0.1 AU a 0.53 to 0.69% mean planetary
radius difference, and at 4 AU we find a 1.24 to 1.49% difference depending on the model.
Future telescopes (PLATO) will be able to precisely characterize solid exoplanets and demonstrate the possible existence
of planetary mass-radius relationship variability between galactic stellar populations.