---
layout: post
title:  "K2-111 an old system with two planets in near-resonance"
excerpt: "This paper reports on the detailed characterisation of the K2-111 planetary system. Aside of K2-111 b, we announce the existence of a second  sinusoidal  signal  in  the  radial  velocity  data, caused by a non-transiting planet, K2-111 c."
date:   2020-10-06
categories: Papers
author:
  name: Mortier et al.
  links:
  - title: Arxiv.org
    url: https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.01993
    icon: far fa-file-pdf
tags:
  - 'Co-Author'
share: false

---
This paper reports on the detailed characterisation of the K2-111 planetary system. We used K2, WASP, and ASAS-SN photometry as well as high-resolution spectroscopic data from HARPS-N and ESPRESSO to characterise this system. A global fit of the K2 transit and radial velocity data were performed using ```PyORBIT```, comparing several models. The host, K2-111, is confirmed to be a mildly evolved ($$\log g=4.17$$), iron-poor ($$\text{[Fe/H]}=-0.46$$), but alpha-enhanced ($$[\alpha\text{/Fe}]=0.27$$), very old G2 star, likely belonging to the thick disc population of the Galaxy. The transiting planet, K2-111 b, orbiting with a period $$P_b=5.3518\pm0.0004$$ d, is precisely and accurately characterised to have a planet radius of $$1.82^{+0.11}_{-0.09}$$ $$R_\oplus$$ and a mass of $$5.29^{+0.76}_{-0.77}$$ $$M_\oplus$$, resulting in a bulk density slightly lower than that of the Earth. The stellar chemical composition and the planet properties are, within two sigma, consistent with K2-111 b being a terrestrial planet with an iron core mass fraction lower than the Earth. We announce the existence of a  second  sinusoidal  signal  in  the  radial  velocity  data,  unlikely  to  have  arisen  from stellar activity in this chromospherically quiet star. We attribute this signal to a non-transiting planet, K2-111 c, with an orbital period of $$15.6785\pm 0.0064$$ days, orbiting in near 3:1 mean-motion resonance with the transiting planet, and a minimum planet mass of $$11.3\pm1.1$$ $$M_\oplus$$. Both planet signals are independently detected in the HARPS-N  and  ESPRESSO  data  when  fitted  separately.  There  are  potentially  more  planets in  this  resonant  system,  but  more  well-sampled  data  are  required  to  confirm  their presence and physical parameters in this old system. Systems like K2-111, occupying a parameter space less well-explored, allow us to improve planet formation and evolution theories.

---

Authors: A. Mortier, M.R. Zapatero Osorio, L. Malavolta, Y. Alibert, K. Rice, J. Lillo-Box, A. Vanderburg, M. Oshagh, L. Buchhave, V. Adibekyan, E. Delgado Mena, M. Lopez-Morales, D. Charbonneau, S.G. Sousa, C. Lovis, L. Affer, S.C.C. Barros, S. Benatti, A.S. Bonomo, W. Boschin, F. Bouchy, A. Collier Cameron, R. Cosentino, S. Cristiani, V. D’Odorico, X. Dumusque, D. Ehrenreich, P. Figueira, A. Fiorenzano, A. Ghedina, J.I. González Hernández, J. Haldemann, A. Harutyunyan, R.D. Haywood, D.W. Latham, B. Lavie, G. Lo Curto, J. Maldonado, C. J. A. P. Martins, M. Mayor, A. Mehner, G. Micela, N. J. Nunes, F.A. Pepe, E. Palle, D. Phillips, M. Pinamonti, E. Poretti, R. Rebolo, N.C. Santos, D. Sasselov, A. Sozzetti, A. Suárez Mascareño, S. Udry, R.G. West, C.A. Watson, T. G. Wilson
