---
layout: post
title:  "Warm terrestrial planet with half the mass of Venus transiting a nearby star"
excerpt: "The advent of a new generation of radial velocity instruments has allowed us to break the one Earth-mass barrier. We report a new milestone in this context with the detection of the lowest-mass planet measured so far using radial velocities: L 98-59 b, a rocky planet with half the mass of Venus."
date:   2021-07-12
categories: Papers
author:
  name: Demangeon et al.
  links:
  - title: Arxiv.org
    url: https://arxiv.org/abs/2108.03323
    icon: far fa-file-pdf
  - title: Astronomy & Astrophysics
    url: https://doi.org/10.1051/0004-6361/202140728 
    icon: far fa-file
tags:
  - 'Co-Author'
share: false

---
The advent of a new generation of radial velocity instruments has allowed us to break the one Earth-mass barrier. We report a new milestone in this context with the detection of the lowest-mass planet measured so far using radial velocities: L 98-59 b, a rocky planet with half the mass of Venus. It is part of a system composed of three known transiting terrestrial planets (planets b to d). We announce the discovery of a fourth nontransiting planet with a minimum mass of $$3.06_{-0.37}^{+0.33}$$ MEarth and an orbital period of $$12.796_{-0.019}^{+0.020}$$ days and report indications for the presence of a fifth nontransiting terrestrial planet. With a minimum mass of $$2.46_{-0.82}^{+0.66}$$ $$M_\oplus$$ and an orbital period $$23.15_{-0.17}^{+0.60}$$ days, this planet, if confirmed, would sit in the middle of the habitable zone of the L 98-59 system. L 98-59 is a bright M dwarf located $$10.6$$ pc away. Positioned at the border of the continuous viewing zone of the James Webb Space Telescope, this system is destined to become a corner stone for comparative exoplanetology of terrestrial planets. The three transiting planets have transmission spectrum metrics ranging from 49 to 255, which makes them prime targets for an atmospheric characterization with the James Webb Space Telescope, the Hubble Space Telescope, Ariel, or ground-based facilities such as NIRPS or ESPRESSO. With an equilibrium temperature ranging from 416 to 627 K, they offer a unique opportunity to study the diversity of warm terrestrial planets. L 98-59 b and c have densities of $$3.6_{-1.5}^{+1.4}$$ and $$4.57_{-0.85}^{+0.77}$$ g cm$$^{-3}$$, respectively, and have very similar bulk compositions with a small iron core that represents only 12 to 14% of the total mass, and a small amount of water. However, with a density of $$2.95_{-0.51}^{+0.79}$$ g cm$$^{-3}$$ and despite a similar core mass fraction, up to 30% of the mass of L 98-59 d might be water. 

----
Authors: Olivier D. S. Demangeon, M. R. Zapatero Osorio, Y. Alibert, S. C. C. Barros, V. Adibekyan, H. M. Tabernero, A. Antoniadis-Karnavas, J. D. Camacho, A. Suárez Mascareño, M. Oshagh, G. Micela, S. G. Sousa, C. Lovis, F. A. Pepe, R. Rebolo, S. Cristiani, N. C. Santos, R. Allart, C. Allende Prieto, D. Bossini, F. Bouchy, A. Cabral, M. Damasso, P. Di Marcantonio, V. D'Odorico, D. Ehrenreich, J. Faria, P. Figueira, R. Génova Santos, J. Haldemann, N. Hara, J. I. González Hernández, B. Lavie, J. Lillo-Box, G. Lo Curto, C. J. A. P. Martins, D. Mégevand, A. Mehner, P. Molaro, N. J. Nunes, E. Pallé, L. Pasquini, E. Poretti, A. Sozzetti, S. Udry