---
layout: post
title:  "Exoplanet characterization using conditional invertible neural networks"
excerpt: "To speed up the inference process when characterizing an exoplanet, we propose to use conditional invertible neural networks to calculate the posterior probability of the planetary structure parameters." 
date:   2023-04-20
categories: Papers
author:
  name: Haldemann et al. 2023
  links:
  - title:  Astronomy & Astrophysics
    url: https://www.aanda.org/articles/aa/full_html/2023/04/aa43230-22/aa43230-22.html
    icon: far fa-file-pdf
tags:
  - 'First-Author'
share: false

---
*Context.* The characterization of the interior of an exoplanet  is an inverse problem. The solution requires statistical methods such as Bayesian inference. Current methods employ Markov chain Monte Carlo  (MCMC) sampling to infer the posterior probability of the planetary  structure parameters for a given exoplanet. These methods are  time-consuming because they require the evaluation of a planetary  structure model $$\sim 10^5$$ times.

*Aims.* To speed up the inference process when characterizing an exoplanet, we propose to use conditional invertible neural networks to  calculate the posterior probability of the planetary structure  parameters.

*Methods.* Conditional invertible neural networks (cINNs) are a  special type of neural network that excels at solving inverse problems.  We constructed a cINN following the framework for easily invertible  architectures (FreIA). This neural network was then trained on a  database of $$5.6 \cdot 10^6$$ internal structure models to recover  the inverse mapping between internal structure parameters and observable features (i.e., planetary mass, planetary radius, and elemental  composition of the host star). We also show how observational  uncertainties can be accounted for.

*Results.* The cINN method was compared to a commonly used  Metropolis-Hastings MCMC. To do this, we repeated the characterization  of the exoplanet K2-111 b, using both the MCMC method and the trained  cINN. We show that the inferred posterior probability distributions of  the internal structure parameters from both methods are very similar;  the largest differences are seen in the exoplanet water content. Thus, cINNs are a possible alternative to the standard time-consuming sampling methods. cINNs allow infering the composition of an exoplanet that is  orders of magnitude faster than what is possible using an MCMC method.  The computation of a large database of internal structures to train the  neural network is still required, however. Because this database is only computed once, we found that using an invertible neural network is more efficient than an MCMC when more than ten exoplanets are characterized  using the same neural network.

----
Authors: Jonas Haldemann, Victor Ksoll, Daniel Walter, Yann Alibert, Ralf S. Klessen, Willy Benz, Ullrich Koethe, Lynton Ardizzone and Carsten Rother