---
layout: post
title:  "BICEPS: An improved characterization model for low- and intermediate-mass exoplanets"
excerpt: "We present an improved interior characterization model for planets with masses between 0.5 and 30 Earth masses, equilibrium temperatures below <2000 K, and a wide range of planetary compositions and physical phases." 
date:   2024-01-01
categories: Papers
author:
  name: Haldemann et al. 2024
  links:
  - title:  Astronomy & Astrophysics
    url: https://www.aanda.org/articles/aa/abs/2024/01/aa46965-23/aa46965-23.html
    icon: far fa-file-pdf
tags:
  - 'First-Author'
share: false

---
*Context.* The number of exoplanets with precise mass and radius measurements is constantly increasing thanks to novel ground- and  space-based facilities such as HARPS, ESPRESSO, CHEOPS, and TESS. The  accuracy and robustness of the planetary characterization largely  depends on the quality of the data, but also requires a planetary  structure model, capable of accurately modeling the interior and  atmospheres of exoplanets over a large range of boundary conditions.

*Aims.* Our goal is to provide an improved characterization  model for planets with masses between 0.5 and 30 Earth masses,  equilibrium temperatures below <2000 K, and a wide range of planetary compositions and physical phases.

*Methods.* In this work, we present the Bayesian Interior  Characterization of ExoPlanetS (BICEPS) model, which combines an  adaptive Markov chain Monte Carlo sampling method with a  state-of-the-art planetary structure model. BICEPS incorporates many  recently developed equations of state suited for large ranges of  pressures and temperatures, a description for solid and molten planetary cores and mantles, a gaseous envelope composed of hydrogen, helium, and water (with compositional gradients), and a non-gray atmospheric model.

*Results.* We find that the usage of updated equations of state  has a significant impact on the interior structure prediction. The  impact varies, depending on the planetary composition. For dense rocky  planets, BICEPS predicts radii a few percent different to prior internal structure models. For volatile rich planets, we find differences of 10% or even larger. When applying BICEPS to a particular exoplanet, TOI-130 b, we inferred a 25% larger water mass fraction and a 15% smaller core  than previous models.

*Conclusions.* The presented exoplanet characterization model is a robust method applicable over a large range of planetary masses,  compositions, and thermal boundary conditions. We show the importance of implementing state-of-the-art equations of state for the encountered  thermodynamic conditions of exoplanets. Hence, using BICEPS improves the predictive strength of the characterization process compared to  previous methods.

----
Authors: Jonas Haldemann, Caroline Dorn, Julia Venturini, Yann Alibert and Willy Benz