---
layout: post
title:  "A radius valley between migrated steam worlds and evaporated rocky cores" 
excerpt: "We provide a  hybrid theoretical explanation of the radius gap and cliff caused by both planet formation (orbital migration) as well as evolution (atmospheric escape)." 
date:   2024-02-01
categories: Papers
author:
  name: Burn et al.
  links:
  - title:  Nature Astronomy
    url: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41550-023-02183-7
    icon: far fa-file-pdf
  - title: Arxiv.org
    url: https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.04380
    icon: far fa-file-pdf
tags:
  - 'Co-Author'
share: false

---
The radius valley (or gap) in the observed distribution of exoplanet  radii, which separates smaller super-Earths from larger sub-Neptunes, is a key feature that theoretical models must explain. Conventionally, it  is interpreted as the result of the loss of primordial hydrogen and  helium (H/He) envelopes atop rocky cores. However, planet formation  models predict that water-rich planets migrate from cold regions outside the snowline towards the star. Assuming water to be in the form of  solid ice in their interior, many of these planets would be located in  the radius gap contradicting observations. Here we use an advanced  coupled formation and evolution model that describes the planets' growth and evolution starting from solid, moon-sized bodies in the  protoplanetary disk to mature Gyr-old planetary systems. Employing new  equations of state and interior structure models to treat water as  vapour mixed with H/He, we naturally reproduce the valley at the  observed location. The model results demonstrate that the observed  radius valley can be interpreted as the separation of less massive,  rocky super-Earths formed in situ from more massive, ex situ, water-rich sub-Neptunes. Furthermore, the occurrence drop at larger radii, the  so-called radius cliff, is matched by planets with water-dominated  envelopes. Our statistical approach shows that the synthetic  distribution of radii quantitatively agrees with observations for  close-in planets, but only if low-mass planets initially containing H/He lose their atmosphere due to photoevaporation, which populates the  super-Earth peak with evaporated rocky cores. Therefore, we provide a  hybrid theoretical explanation of the radius gap and cliff caused by  both planet formation (orbital migration) as well as evolution  (atmospheric escape).

----
Authors:  Burn, Remo; Mordasini, Christoph; Mishra, Lokesh; Haldemann, Jonas; Venturini, Julia; Emsenhuber, Alexandre; Henning, Thomas
